there are all kinds of performance
horses this miniature is learning to be
a guide horse
she's taking her blind owner for one of
their first walks together and this
overhead obstacle is a test for her
which she passed beautifully she took
her owner out away from that sign
stopped perfectly at the crosswalk and
now she's going to take her across the
driveway take her around this stop sign
and she's been given the command to find
the car which she is going to do
absolutely beautifully and all of that
work has been taught with the clicker
we began with her training the way we
begin with all horses we taught her to
touch targets this is her very first day
in training and we're just using this
foam pool little noodle to get her
introduced to the concept of clicker
training her training began unlike most
other horses but then it took some
interesting twists and turns so we
taught her some things we wouldn't
normally be teaching such as getting in
a car so actually this is trailer
loading miniature style and here she's
really trying to get in this car it's
just she doesn't know how and what I'm
doing is offering her my hand as a
target for her to touch and she's just
trying to figure out what to do with all
of her legs and there she finally
figured it out and click she's going to
get a big jackpot for that we also
taught her to go up and down stairs and
here she's doing some of her early lead
work and I'm teaching her to stop it
curbs so every time we get to a curb
crossing at this juncture I would stop
her and click and then give her a treat
so that she began to associate curbs
with a place to stop and also a place
where she got reinforced the key to
guide training is really being
consistent and if we took that into our
big horse training we just thought of
our horses as
with the that we needed to train to the
same standard that we train the guide
horses our big horses would have far
fewer problems what you're about to see
is some of her early obstacle training
I'm gonna take advantage of this
telephone pole I asked her to go forward
and she went around it thinking I would
too but I ran into it just said whoops
in a great loud voice and sort of did a
silent movie slapstick run into the
telephone pole and this time when I
asked her to go forward she steered me
around it and I clicked and reinforced
her for it this is downtown Boston and
this is three weeks into her training
she's a ten month old foal at this point
and look at how she's already processed
obstacle training how beautifully she
took me around that traffic barrel and
here she's going to stop at a curb note
also the focus she has she's ten months
old and even the traffic of downtown
Boston doesn't bother her at all
this coming up is a really interesting
obstacle this was pandas very first
experience with overhead obstacles and I
asked her to go forward and she could go
under the chain so she went under no
problem for her but I ran into it so I
repositioned her and second time look
what she did she reaches up she touches
it I asked her to go forward again she
tried to go forward I again ran into the
chain and now I'm going to read present
her again and on her third try I asked
her to go forward and this time she took
me around it so she gets a big click and
a treat for that and this is the
beginning of what we call intelligent
disobedience let's listen in for a
moment to this training session
good girl good girl
over left
good
did forward
aren't you good aren't you a good girl
find the stairs
good girl good girl wait for word good
girl
kind of find the stare
good girl
wait same word so good
[Music]
good find the door
aren't you good now it's important here
is that Panda signals me when
she's come to a stayer you're very good
and that she's going to wait wait and a
forward until I give her the forward
signal good girl and a forward wait
forward good girl
so with the stairs panda is telling me
she's giving me a cue good girl and
we'll just find the see what she does
here
good girl
and over left
good girl forward good girl
girl very good and over right very good
[Music]
find the car what a good girl you are
what a good good